---
layout: page
title: "Watches"
summary: "Some of my favorite watches"
---

These are some of my favorites.

## [LAURENT FERRIER GALET MICRO-ROTOR - BRUSHED DIAL - STEEL - REF. FBN 229.01](https://www.acollectedman.com/collections/all/products/laurent-ferrier-galet-micro-rotor-grey-dial?variant=12515229204563)

This is easily one of my favorites.

![Larent Ferrier Galet Micro-Rotor, black brushed dial, steel case](/images/watches/Laurent_Ferrier_Galet_Micro_Rotor_Breguet_Brushed_steel_watch_at_A_Collected_Man_London25.jpg)

Artistry meets manufacture in one of very few, 40mm Laurent Ferrier Galet
Micro-rotors in steel. This Laurent Ferrier Galet Micro-Rotor is sized at a
contemporary 40mm, and has a distinctive amorphous, bevel-free shape. The
case features a rounded bezel, thin lugs and the manufactures' signature
onion-shaped crown, which work proportionately well together. The entire
watch is polished and mirror finished, while the crown itself engraved with
a pattern.

The brushed-grey dial is accented with white-gold, applied Breguet
numerals, corresponding harmoniously with Laurent Ferrier’s Breguet-style
hands.  The index markers and hands are subtle in form, and correspond
harmoniously in shape.

Impressively, the Laurent Ferrier Galet Micro-Rotor also utilises a double
direct-impulse escapement, which improves the efficiency of the movement
through its ability to use less power and maintain amplitude, achieved
through the escape-lever being locked down between two escape wheels.

## [Breguet Type XX - XXI - XXII 3800](https://www.breguet.com/en/timepieces/type-xx-xxi-xxii/3800)

![Breguet Type XX/XXI/XXII 3800, black dial](/images/watches/Breguet_XX_XXI_XXII_3800st_92_9w6_2.jpg)

Type XX Aéronavale flyback chronograph in steel. Self-winding movement,
subdial for the seconds. 30-minute and 12-hour totalizers. Graduated
turning bezel. Luminous hands and numerals. Screw-locked crown.
Water-resistant to 10 bar ( 100 m ).  Diameter : 39 mm. Available with
steel bracelet.

## [Breguet Classique 7147](https://www.breguet.com/en/timepieces/classique/7147)

![Breguet Classique 7147, white dial](/images/watches/Breguet_Classique_7147bb_29_9wu_face_hr.jpg)

Case in 18k white gold with delicately fluted caseband. Sapphire-crystal
caseback. 40mm diameter. Welded lugs with screw bars. Water-resistant to 3
bar (30m).  Dial in “Grand Feu” enamel. Signed Breguet. Hours chapter with
Arabic Breguet numerals. Small seconds offset at 5 o’clock. Breguet
open-tipped hands in blued steel.  Self-winding movement, Cal. 502.3SD.
Numbered and signed Breguet. Extra-thin (2.4mm). 12 lignes. 35 jewels.
45-hour power reserve. Inverted in-line lever escapement with silicon
pallets. Balance spring in silicon. Balance frequency 3Hz. Adjusted in 6
positions.  Alligator leather strap with gold pin buckle.  Also available
in rose gold. Also available with dial in silvered 18-carat gold,
engine-turned.

## [Breguet Tourbillon Extra-Plat 5367](https://www.breguet.com/en/timepieces/new-models-classique-complications/5367)

![Breguet Tourbillon Extra-Plat, white dial](/images/watches/Breguet_Tourbillon_Extra-Plat_5367BR_29_9WU_0.jpg)

Case in 18-carat rose gold with a finely fluted caseband. Sapphire crystal
caseback. Diameter 42 mm. Dial in “Grand Feu” enamel. Mechanical movement
self-winding, extra-thin ( 3 mm), Cal. 581. 80-hour power reserve. Inverted
lateral lever escapement with silicon horns. Balance spring in silicon.
Tourbillon with titanium carriage. Small seconds on the tourbillon axis.
Frequency 4 Hz. Also in platinum.

## [PHILIPPE DUFOUR SIMPLICITY - PLATINUM - 37 MM](https://www.acollectedman.com/collections/all/products/philippe-dufour-simplicity-platinum-watch-for-sale?variant=18368576899)

![Philippe Dufour Simplicity, white dial, platinum case 12, 3, 9 arabic numerals with triangle dashes for the other hours, second counter complication at 6 o'clock](/images/watches/Philippe_Dufour_Simplicity_platinum_no_166_handmade_watch_at_A_Collected_Man_London2_2048x2048.jpg)

This 37mm, platinum Philippe Dufour Simplicity, in its larger size and
precious case metal, represents one of the most sought-after variants, of
arguably the most coveted hand-made watch in the world.  Moving on to the
front of the watch, the platinum, round case measures 37 mm and features a
white gold crown. The solid silver dial has a sunburst finish, and features
a painted, black minute track and applied Arabic numerals and index
markers. An inner chapter, with stunning guilloché and Dauphine hands,
humbly features a cartouche with the watchmaker's name. The sub-seconds
register at six o'clock has concentric circles and black, painted markers.
The overall design is very similar to the extremely refined version of Mr
Dufour's very own, personal Simplicity. This Philippe Dufour Simplicity
comes on a black alligator strap with a 18-carat white gold tang buckle.

## [F. P. JOURNE CHRONOMÈTRE SOUVERAIN - CS.RG.40 - ROSE GOLD](https://www.acollectedman.com/collections/all/products/fp-journe-chronometre-souverain-csrg40-watch)

![F.P. Journe Chronometre Souverain](/images/watches/F_P_Journe_Chronometre_Souverain_Rose_gold_silver_dial_watch_at_A_Collected_Man_London1.jpg)

Housed in a classical, 40mm rose-gold case, it is made distinctive by F.P.
Journe’s signature ‘flat crown’ with a rope like pattern. The silver dial
is engine turned in the centre with a hobnail, Clous de Paris pattern,
while the outer track holds the embossed decorative arabic numerals. The
signature F.P. Journe style hands are made of blued steel and forms a
contrast between the silver dial to improve readibility. Between 7 and 8
o’clock is a subsidiary seconds and at 3 o’clock is a power reserve
indicator which states a power reserve of 56 hours. Overall, the dial
layout is cleanly designed and excellently legible.

## [TAVANNES CHRONOGRAPH - STEEL - CAL. VALJOUX 22](https://www.acollectedman.com/collections/all/products/tavannes-chronograph-steel)

![Tavannes Chronograph Caliber Valjoux 22, black dial, steel case](/images/watches/Tavannes__vintage_steel_chronograph_watch_at_A_Collected_Man_London-021.jpg)

This vintage, manual-winding, Tavannes chronograph from the early 1940s is
remarkably well-preserved. The gilt black dial is beautifully proportioned,
with two registers for constant seconds and 30 minute tracking. It features
an outer-track denoting the minutes, offering balance and legibility.
Complimenting this classical timepiece is the addition of steel, feuille
hands, retaining their sharpness. At 12 o’clock, the Tavannes logo is of an
early style, with no other text visible on the dial. The steel case and
flat, polished bezel are sharp and thick, while the high-domed glass
further enhances its typical 40s style.

## [The Habring² Erwin-LAB01 For Massena LAB](https://www.hodinkee.com/articles/massena-lab-habring2-erwin-lab01-introducing)

![Habring Erwin-LAB01 for Massena LAB](/images/watches/habring-erwin-lab01-for-massena-lab.png)

This watch has a very classic look. I like that it's fairly affordable.
[Buy it here](https://www.massenalab.com/product/erwin-lab01/).
